Extended Dk notes:

Bounded confidence - agents converge if within range
Both agents converge 
Opinions distributed uniformly

When confidence tested against confidence bound, both increase

Mu = 1 or 1/2 and same formula i use: if difference < r then new opinion = old opinion + difference * Mu

Different r values (confidence bounds) < 0.5 leads to dual 2 consensus

n = 10 (agents)



Experimenting with 1000 samples for each rmax{1/20, 2/20, 3/20 ...}



DK notes:



N agents Each agent (i) with continuous opinions xi
They both readjust their opinion when the difference is below a threshold d

Mu is between 0 and 0.5 and uses same formula i use

x = x + Mu * (differnce in opinion)

At each time step each pair readjusts their opinions (not location based)

Findings:
Mu and N only influence convergence time whilst d influences the number of peaks. 



Now they do the study based on locality (only neighbouring pairs)
using only 4 neighbours (Von neumann grid)

Lone extremists for low d values and small clusters

Lower d values = more clustering


HK:

When does opinion formation within an interacting group lead to consensus,
polarization or fragmentation?

Average of neighbouring opinions taken

x_i(t+1) = a_i1 x_1 (t) + a_i2 x_2 (t) + ... + a_in x_n (t)

Potential Extension -> weights are time dependant "harden over time"

HK use counded confidence -> takes only agents opinions if < bounded confidence value

Discuss that its pretty similar to DW but small differences

No spatial constraint

Findings / results:
Confidence bounds are same amongst all agents:


0.01 -> fragmentation (split opinions)

0.15 -> polarisation (split into 2 sides)

0.25 -> consensus

Confidence bound assymetric (include briefly) E.g.
Hegselmann & Krause (2002) also explore an asymmetric variant in which agents maintain separate left and right confidence bounds, allowing for directional bias in opinion openness. This project adopts the simpler symmetric formulation."

The consensus is pushed towards the opinion side with the lower bounded confidence




Spatial study notes:

2D torus grid 101 x 101
Opinion + strength of opinion
Opinion spectrum is A = {+-1, +-2, ... +-L}

Sign = opinion and value = strength of opinion

The strength of an individual’s opinion can affect the likelihood that that individual will affect others

Each agent interact with one other, and only one agent can converge in this interaction

Influence = strength of an agents opinion can affect the likelihood that other will be affected can be quadratic, linear, uniform, co-linear, co-quadratic

In an interaction with amplificationthe opinion of the focal individual becomes more entrenched, i.e., they adopt a more extreme attitude. In
an interaction without amplification, depicted on the right in (b)), the focal individual changes their attitude
towards the other individual’s attitude.


Amplification. When a “focal” individual looks to update its attitude via an interaction with another appropriately
chosen individual, the result depends on whether the two opinions are on the same side of the attitude spectrum. If
the attitudes are on opposite sides of the spectrum (i.e., the opinions are opposite), the focal individual will change
its attitude by moving one step toward the other side

Relocation. Some fraction rel ∈ [0, 1] of the population may be chosen to relocate by exchanging positions with other
relocating individuals


Local and global interactions. When a focal individual interacts locally, it chooses one of its 8 nearest neighbors
at random with probabilities weighted by the influences of these neighbors.

When a focal individual interacts globally, it chooses one of the other individuals in the population at random, without
regard to influence


Fully Spatial Model: All individuals interact locally and there is no relocation or telephoning.

Relocation Model: All individuals interact locally but, prior to the interactions in each time step, a fraction rel ∈


Telephoning Model: A fraction loc ∈ [0, 1] of the population is randomly selected at each step. Each individual
in this subset interacts with a local neighbor. The remaining fraction of the population, tel = 1 − loc, chooses
interaction partners globally.



Analysis:

I. CONCLUSION
We considered several versions of our general entrenchment model of opinion dynamics: the fully spatial model,
the telephoning model, and the relocation model. The behavior of the telephoning and relocation models diverge
for a small amount of mixing and come together as mixing increases, where sufficiently high levels of mixing can be
17
approximated by an ODE. Real populations are somewhere in between, leaning towards less mixing: sometimes people
move to new communities, sometimes people have interactions outside their normal contacts, but most interactions
are with the same people from a relatively small group.
We compared the effects of these two modes of mixing on the dynamics of opinion formation. In previous work, we
analyzed the effects of opinion amplification in a population where individuals interacted only locally, and we found
that amplification produces clusters of opinion and polarization towards more extreme opinions resulting in long-term
deadlock. There we compared our model to other existing models of opinion dynamics, including bounded confidence
models and models that explore mechanisms that produce polarization [16, 21, 22, 24, 28, 29]. Our findings show that
the effect of polarization by amplification, which leads to deadlock or at least increased time to consensus, is reversed
in a well-mixed system; an increase in amplification decreases the time to consensus. The transition from deadlock
to consensus as we move from a purely local to mixed population depends on the type of mixing.
Our findings suggest that mixing by relocation will reverse deadlock faster than mixing by telephoning. Where this
reversal happens and how much faster it occurs depends on the level of amplification. As amplification probability
approaches zero, the difference between relocation and telephoning is negligible. However, as amplification is increased,
even just a small amount, the difference between relocation and telephoning becomes significant. The combination of
relocation and amplification dramatically decreases the time to consensus, quickly approaching the behavior of the
ODE system. On the other hand, it takes much more telephoning (in combination with amplification) to approach
the same consensus time behavior.




Stubborn Agents: Binary Opinion Dynamics with Stubborn Agents

Binary opinion choice (2 options)

Modeled by a graph with set of fixed neighbours. Randomly chosen agent communicates with one neighbour and adopts their opinion

Stubborn agents dont change their opinion

Study how to optimally influence opinoin dynamics


They study optimal stubborn agent placement (possible future extension)


In this model, stubborn agents with opposing views prevent consensus in the soci-ety. However, under mild connectivity assumptions, we show that agent state vectorconverges in distribution.

Our analysis relies on an extension of the dual approach for the classical voter model,which involves coalescing random walks with absorbing states given by the stubbornagents.




External Influence (not used):

In social phenomena the basic constituents are humans, i.e., complex
individuals who interact with a limited number of peers, usually negligible
compared to the total number of people in the system. In spite of that,
human societies are characterized by stunning global regularities [4]. We
find transitions from disorder to order, like the spontaneous formation of a
common language/culture or the emergence of consensus about a specific
issue and there are examples of scaling and universality as well.

In the following, we provide a review of opinion dynamics models by
classifying them according to the presence or not of external information,
that is a mechanism mimicking a sort of mass media broadcast

Continuous opinions - Every T
generations, the entire population interacts with the information
 the opinion is
updated only if the bounded confidence condition is met

a Deffuant-like model in two dimensions, with two conflicting opinions (x
1
i
, x
2
i ), was studied under the effect of external influence
from media and experts, on a scale-free social network
Results showed that when
the media message is false, peer interaction can help the population escape the message, only if the media does not reach more than 60% of the
individuals.

External information
(mass-media) is included as a static individual that all agents can interact with, after a peer interaction, with probability pI

The system was
shown to form one or more clusters depending on pI , initial condition and
type of information. Extreme mass-media messages and large exposure
to external information proved to have a reduced success in the population, while mild messages and low exposure were more easily adopted by
a large number of individuals. 


Full agreement with the information was
obtained either for a very mild message or for a very low exposure of a
non-extreme message to a compact initial configuration. The model was
further developed in [176], where multiple media sources were analysed
and shown to lead to more realistic behaviour, i.e., stable non-polarised
32
clusters or full agreement for external information which is not extremely
mild.






New external influence notes:

Generalised voter model, N voters influenced by two opposing news sources whose effect is to promote polarisation. As inluence of news source is increased, mean time to consensus scales non-universallly as N^(alpha).

Alpha = influence of news sources, increases without bound as news sources become more influenctial. Time to reach polarisation is generaelly short

Context signifying importance of external influence:
In recent decades,
this polarization has increased to the point where, for
example, parents affiliated with one US political party
are loathe to have their children wed someone affiliated
with the other major party 

In our model, each individual has two possible opinion states, denoted as + and −. Individual opinions
are updated according to voter model dynamics: a randomly selected voter adopts the opinion of a randomly
selected neighbor

We account for the different propensities of news
media and neighboring voters to influence a given voter
as follows: for a voter linked to one news source and k
other voters, the news source is picked with probability
p/R and a neighboring voter is picked with probability
(1 − p)k/R, where R = p + k(1 − p) is the total rate of
picking any neighbor

Once an interaction partner is
selected, the voter adopts the opinion of this partner

Results:
Consensus time grows with N with an exponent alpha

competing and well-connected news sources hinder the
approach to consensus.

Polarisation time scales as N / Alpha, given voters are well connected to competing news sources

To summarize, the presence of two opposing news
sources promotes political polarization in the voter
model. The news sources give rise to an effective logarithmic potential, which leads to an anomalously long
consensus time and a short time to reach a politically
polarized state. Our modeling has the advantages that
it is analytically tractable and has predictive power to
elucidate the anomalous scaling properties of these two
time scales. The opinion dynamics on the more realistic two-clique graph mirror our analytical results for the complete graph system


















